---
description: Defining how your offices and users are mapped to OpenCRVS
---

# 3.2 Mapping offices and user types

Now that you have defined your business processes you will need to carefully map the standard office types and users within OpenCRVS to support them. It is important to realise that OpenCRVS supports offices and users in a specific and limited way, as described below. There may be some constraints that you will have to work around or will require some creativity.

The best way to map your offices and users is to use the [office / user configuration template](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yni_VJHSqvw0qTIiFjHG3Lnd0fLBKQxKkI8zb8G9cJ0/edit?usp=sharing). The following video show how it can be used.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/yIIpATU_zXo" %}

**Key rules for mapping offices and users:**

* The civil registration office is the primary administrative unit of civil registration in OpenCRVS. All users will need to be assigned to a civil registration office, whether they work at a local or National level.
* Civil registration offices are always mapped to the lowest level of the administrative structure. Again, this is always the case, whether a local office or operating at a regional or national level.
* All staff members that play a role in the local civil registration process will need to be assigned to the local civil registration office. It is important to note that a Health Administrator may formally work within a hospital, but if that user acts as a Field Agent within OpenCRVS then they need to be assigned to the relevant civil registration office. This may apply to other offices submitting notifications or declarations into the civil registration process also (e.g. courts, health facilities, local government offices etc.).
* Note that some offices may only have an oversight function i.e. they supervise the activities of offices focused on service delivery.
* The OpenCRVS standard users have fixed privileges as described in the product specifications section on [users](../../product-specifications/users/). You will also get a good feel for what these users are able to do from the [demo of the Farajaland configuration](../../default-configuration/opencrvs-configuration-in-farajaland/). For each of the users that you have identified in your business process they need to be assigned to one of the OpenCRVS system roles and assigned to a specific office.

### How to Configure User Roles & Scopes

{% hint style="info" %}
Use the User Roles & Scopes Template File found in our [Release Notes](../../../v1.9.0/general/v1.9-release-notes.md#configuration-template-files), designed to help you manage and assign appropriate permissions to different user roles in your system.
{% endhint %}

#### 1. Define User Roles

• Identify the different roles required in your system (e.g., Registrar, Data Entry Clerk, Administrator).

• Assign a meaningful name to each role.

#### 2. Assign Scopes

• Determine what each role should be able to do within the system.

• Assign appropriate scopes based on responsibilities.

#### 3. Review & Test

• Ensure that permissions are correctly set up.

• Test different user roles to confirm they have the right level of access.

#### 4. Deploy & Manage

• Deploy the user roles in the live system.

• Update roles and scopes as needed.
