# 4.2.3.1 Prepare source file for CRVS Office facilities

Prepare your _**crvs-facilities**_ source file. This is a [csv](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated\_values) file for every civil registration office in your country. You can import and create csv files in Excel or Google Drive.

Using our [crvs-facilities.csv](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-countryconfig/blob/develop/src/data-seeding/locations/source/crvs-facilities.csv) file as an example, update it with the CRVS Office information for your country. Our crvs-facilities.csv file looks like this:

| id         | name                   | partOf               | locationType |
| ---------- | ---------------------- | -------------------- | ------------ |
| 2OKicPQMNI | HQ Office              | Location/BxrIbNW7f3K | CRVS\_OFFICE |
| JEhYJ82xRI | Isamba District Office | Location/HPGiE9Jjh2r | CRVS\_OFFICE |
| JWMRGwDBXK | Ibombo District Office | Location/oEBf29y8JP8 | CRVS\_OFFICE |

Each row will represent a unique "CRVS Office" in your country.

{% hint style="info" %}
Do not change or re-format the header row as the seeding process requires these names to be precise in order to parse the csv. Do not use commas in any cell and do not have any empty rows.
{% endhint %}

The **id** column is a unique identifier for each office. This could be a unique identifier you already use or alternatively you could create unique identifiers programatically, using Excel or using an online UUID generator website for which there are many free ones available. **It is important to note that the id must contain no spaces, no rich texts or commas**

This Excel / Google Sheets formula creates a random unique ID:

```
=DEC2HEX(RANDBETWEEN(0, 4294967295), 8)
```

The **name** column contains the human readable name for the office. We do not currently support multilingual names for the office. **It is important to note that the name must contain no commas**

The **partOf** column shows that the office is part of a higher level administrative division. Notice how we use the levels **admin\<level>Pcode** to set the office as a child of a particular parent level. For example **HQ Office** district is a child of **Isamba** district thanks to this partOf value. Perhaps you may also recognise that these form part of [FHIR Reference URLs](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/references-definitions.html#Reference.reference) hence the requirement for them to be absent of spaces and special characters:

```
Location/HPGiE9Jjh2
```

* The **locationType** column must be set to CRVS\_OFFICE
