# 22. Comms management

Keeping users and informants informed and update to date is important to keeping the system functioning and registration processed in a timely manner. SMS is currently supported to send notifications to users and informants. Planned for 1.4 we will introduce support for sending emails and WhatsApp messaged.

### User notifications

Notifications can be sent to a user for various different reasons:

* Onboarding
* Username reminder
* Two factor authentication codes
* When a system admin reset a users password
* When a system admin sends a username reminder

#### Supported communication methods:

* SMS

### Informant notifications

Notifications can be sent to the informant throughout the registration process to give them updates on progress.

#### Supported communication methods:

* SMS

Each SMS notification can be toggled on and off by a National System Admin and the copy can be changed by a developer. Example SMS messages for birth registration:

*   **Notification sent to Office**

    Your birth registration tracking ID is \{{trackingId\}}. Please visit \{{crvsOffice\}} to complete your declaration
*   **Declaration sent for review**

    Your birth registration tracking ID for \{{name\}} is \{{trackingId\}}. You will get an SMS within 2 days with progress and next steps.
*   **Declaration rejected**

    Your birth declaration has been rejected. Please visit \{{regOffice\}} with your supporting documents. Your tracking ID is \{{trackingID\}}.
*   **Declaration registered**

    Congratulations, the birth of \{{name\}} has been registered. Visit your local registration office in 5 days with your ID to collect the certificate. Your tracking ID is \{{trackingId\}}
