# v1.7.0: Release notes

## Before you update

**Upgrading your country config package from v1.6 to v1.7**

In order to make the upgrade easier, there are a couple of steps that need to be performed which will make the codebase ready for the upgrade:

1. Run this command from the root of your country config repository

```shell

curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-countryconfig/release-v1.7.0/src/upgrade-to-1_7.ts | npx ts-node -T --cwd ./src

```

It will remove `roles.csv` and generate a `roles.ts` file. It will also update your `default-employees.csv` & `prod-employees.csv` files to match our new configuration syntax for [User roles & scopes](https://documentation.opencrvs.org/default-configuration/opencrvs-configuration-in-farajaland/user-role-mapping) while adding the corresponding translations in `client.csv`.

The employee CSV files only affect deployments of new environments. If you already have a v1.6.x of OpenCRVS deployed, the data in the environment will automatically get migrated after deploying the upgrade. The changes in these two files are made to keep the roles in sync with your previously deployed environments, if any.

2. Verify and review changes made made by our upgrade script

```bash

❯ git status

Changes not staged for commit:

(use "git add/rm <file>..." to update what will be committed)

(use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)

modified: src/data-seeding/employees/source/default-employees.csv

deleted: src/data-seeding/roles/source/roles.csv

modified: src/translations/client.csv



Untracked files:

(use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

src/data-seeding/roles/roles.ts

```

3. Commit the changes and follow our [migration notes](https://documentation.opencrvs.org/general/releases/migration-notes) to complete the upgrade

{% hint style="info" %}
After pulling in the v1.7.0 changes, you can safely reject all changes incoming to `roles.ts`, `default-employees.csv` & `prod-employees.csv` files.
{% endhint %}

The `roles.ts` file now defines all the roles available in the system. New roles can be added & existing roles can be customised by giving them different scopes.

{% hint style="warning" %}
Once a role is defined in `roles.ts`, it should never be deleted. This is to prevent situations where historical data might refer to a user role that does not exist or have configuration for it anymore.
{% endhint %}

## OpenCRVS Core

### Breaking changes

- **Configurable user roles & scopes:** OpenCRVS now supports configurable user roles 🎉 For existing environments, this means changes in configuration files and country config APIs. More information in our migration guide.
- **Retrieve action deprecated:** Field agents & registration agents used to be able to retrieve records to view the audit history & PII. We are removing this in favor of audit capabilities that are planned for in a future release.
- **Metabase dashboards:** From this release forwards, all new deployments will reset Metabase configuration to the state defined by your country configuration's initialisation file. This change enables us to upgrade your Metabase more frequently without requiring manual upgrade steps.
- Removed unused searchBirthRegistrations and searchDeathRegistrations queries, as they are no longer used by the client.

### New features

- Allow configuring the default search criteria for record search [#6924](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/6924)
- Add checks to validate client and server are always on the same version. This prevents browsers with a cached or outdated client versions from making potentially invalid requests to the backend [#6695](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/6695)
- Two new statuses of record are added: `Validated` and `Correction Requested` for advanced search parameters [#6365](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/6365)
- A new field: `Time Period` is added to advanced search [#6365](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/6365)
- Deploy UI-Kit Storybook to [opencrvs.pages.dev](https://opencrvs.pages.dev) to allow extending OpenCRVS using the component library
- Record audit action buttons are moved into action menu [#7390](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7390)
- Reoder the sytem user add/edit field for surname to be first, also change labels from `Last name` to `User's surname` and lastly remove the NID question from the form [#6830](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/6830)
- Corrected the total amount displayed for _certification_ and _correction_ fees on the Performance Page, ensuring accurate fee tracking across certification and correction sequences. [#7793](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7793)
- Auth now allows registrar's token to be exchanged for a new token that strictly allows confirming or rejecting a specific record. Core now passes this token to country configuration instead of the registrar's token [#7728](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7728) [#7849](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7849)
- **Template Selection for Certified Copies**: Added support for multiple certificate templates for each event (birth, death, marriage). Users can now select a template during the certificate issuance process.
- **Template-based Payment Configuration**: Implemented payment differentiation based on the selected certificate template, ensuring the correct amount is charged.
- **Template Action Tracking**: Each template printed is tracked in the history table, showing which specific template was used.
- **Template Selection Dropdown**: Updated print workflow to include a dropdown menu for template selection when issuing a certificate.
- **QR code scanner**: A form field component allows pre-populating informant's details based on a ID card [#8196](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/pull/8196)
- Introduced a new customisable UI component: Banner [#8276](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/8276)
- Auth now allows exchanging user's token for a new record-specific token [#7728](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7728)
- A new GraphQL mutation `upsertRegistrationIdentifier` is added to allow updating the patient identifiers of a registration record such as NID [#8034](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/pull/8034)
- Updated GraphQL mutation `confirmRegistration` to allow adding a `comment` for record audit [#8197](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/pull/8197)
- Add `isAgeInYearsBetween` validator to enable validation that will constraint a date to be only valid if it falls within a specified date range. The `isInformantOfLegalAge` validator is now deprecated and removed in favor of `isAgeInYearsBetween` validator [#7636](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7636)

### Improvements

- Auth token, ip address, remote address redacted from server log
- **Align Patient data model with FHIR**: Previously we were using `string[]` for `Patient.name.family` field instead of `string` as mentioned in the FHIR standard. We've now aligned the field with the standard.
- **Certificate Fetching**: Removed certificates from the database, allowing them to be fetched directly from the country configuration via a simplified API endpoint.

### Deprecated

- `validator-api` & `age-verification-api` & `nationalId` scopes are deprecated as unused. Corresponding scopes are removed from the `systemScopes` and also removed from the audience when creating the token [#7904](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7904)

### Bug fixes

- Fix task history getting corrupted if a user views a record while it's in external validation [#8278](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/8278)
- Fix health facilities missing from dropdown after correcting a record address [#7528](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7528)
- "Choose a new password" form now allows the user to submit the form using the "Enter/Return" key [#5502](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/5502)
- Dropdown options now flow to multiple rows in forms [#7653](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/pull/7653)

## Country config template

### Breaking changes

- `INFORMANT_SIGNATURE` & `INFORMANT_SIGNATURE_REQUIRED` are now deprecated
- Existing implementations relying on database-stored SVGs need to be updated to use the new configuration-based approach. Default certificate templates must be created for each event type, following the convention `${event}-certificate` as the certificate template ID.
- **Roles** The previous `roles.csv` file has been deprecated. It will get removed once you run the upgrade command before pulling in the v1.7 changes. The command automatically generates a `roles.ts` file which can be used as a baseline to configure the roles as per your requirements.

### New features

- Update the translations for System user add/edit form, `Last name` to `User's surname` and `First name` to `User's first name` to make them less confusing for system users [#6830](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/6830)
- **User scopes** Introduce granular scopes to grant specific permissions to a particular role. The specifics about the introduced scopes can be found here: _Link to scopes description file_
- **Refactored certificate handling:** SVGs are no longer stored in the database; streamlined configurations now include certificate details, and clients request SVGs directly via URLs.
- Add constant.humanName to allow countries to have custom ordering on their full name e.g. start with `lastName` or `firstName` [#6830](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/6830)
- Add `isAgeInYearsBetween` validator to enable validation that will constraint a date to be only valid if it falls within a specified date range. The `isInformantOfLegalAge` validator is now deprecated and removed in favor of `isAgeInYearsBetween` validator [#7636](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7636)

### Improvements

- Auth token, ip address, remote address, mobile number, email redacted/masked from server log
- Optimized deployment times by making docker images download in parallel.
- Country alpha3 ISO code now is derived from variables to the Docker Compose files and don't need to be hard coded

### Bug fixes

- Protect individual certificate endpoint with token
- Kibana disk space alerts now work regardless of your disk device names. Alerts listen devices mounted both to `/` and `/data` (encrypted data partition)
- "Publish release" pipeline now correctly uses the "Branch to build from" value as the branch to be tagged. Previously it tried tagging "master". "Release tag" is also now used as the release version as is instead of it being read from `package.json`.
- Backup process now doesn't require internet connection to download docker images thus working more reliably when internet connections are unreliable. Previously non-active images were cleaned nightly, now we only do it as part of deployment. [#7896](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7896)
- We make sure that the automatic cleanup job only runs before deployment (instead of cron schedule cleanup).
- Previously it was possible MongoDB replica set and users were left randomly uninitialised after a deployment. MongoDB initialisation container now retries on failure.
- On some machines 'file' utility was not preinstalled causing provision to fail. We now install the utility if it doesn't exist.

### Infrastructure breaking changes

{% hint style="warning" %}
All Metabase configuration that is not persisted into `metabase.init.db.sql` will be cleared as part of upgrading to OpenCRVS 1.7.0 and on all proceeding deployments!
{% endhint %}

- Metabase data is no longer backed up by the default OpenCRVS country configuration. This was done to ensure Metabase can properly be started up as part of OpenCRVS deployment, even when there has been a Metabase version upgrade. To learn more about how Metabase should be configured in a persistent manner, please refer our documentation on [4.2.5.2 Configuring Metabase Dashboards](https://documentation.opencrvs.org/setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.5-set-up-application-settings/4.2.5.2-configuring-metabase-dashboards) [#8043](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/8043)

### New content keys requiring translation

```
action.action,Label for action button,Action
action.archive,Label for archive record button in dropdown menu,Archive declaration
action.assignee,Label for asignee,Assigned to {name } at {officeName}
action.correct,Label for correct record button in dropdown menu,Correct record
action.issue,Label for reinstate issue button in dropdown menu,Issue certificate
action.print,Label for reinstate print button in dropdown menu,Print certified copy
action.reinstate,Label for reinstate record button in dropdown menu,Reisntate declaration
action.review.correction,Label for review correction in dropdown menu,Review correction request
action.review.declaration,Label for review declaration button in dropdown menu,"Review {isDuplicate, select, true{potential duplicate} other{declaration}}"
action.update,Label for reinstate update button in dropdown menu,Update declaration
action.view,Label for view button in dropdown menu,View {recordOrDeclaration}
advancedSearch.form.recordStatusValidated,Option for form field: status of record,Validated
advancedSearch.form.timePeriodHelperText,Helper text for input Time period,Period of time since the record status changed
advancedSearch.form.timePeriodLabel,Label for input Time period,Time period
advancedSearchResult.pill.timePeriod,The label for time period in active advancedSearchParams,Time period
certificate.selectTemplate,Select certificate template,Type
certificate.selectedTemplate,Selected certificate template,Selected certificate template
certificates.birth.certificate,Birth Certificate,Birth Certificate
certificates.birth.certificate.copy,Birth Certificate Certified Copy,Birth Certificate Certified Copy
certificates.birth.registration.receipt,Birth Registration Receipt,Birth Registration Receipt
certificates.death.certificate,Death Certificate,Death Certificate
certificates.death.certificate.copy,Death Certificate Certified Copy,Death Certificate Certified Copy
certificates.marriage.certificate,Marriage Certificate,Marriage Certificate
certificates.marriage.certificate.copy,Marriage Certificate Certified Copy,Marriage Certificate Certified Copy
changeModal.cancel,The label for cancel button of change modal,Cancel
changeModal.continue,The label for continue button of change modal,Continue
changeModal.description,The description for change modal,A record will be created of any changes you make
changeModal.title,The title for change modal,Edit declaration?
config.emailAllUsers.subtitle,Subtitle for email all users,This email will be sent to all users who are active. Emails will be sent over the next 24 hours. Only one email can be sent per day
constants.humanName,Formatted full name, {lastName} {middleName} {firstName}
event.history.timeFormat,"MMMM dd, yyyy · hh.mm a","MMMM dd, yyyy · hh.mm a"
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.label,This is what this form is referred as in the system,Tennis club membership application
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.section.recommender.field.firstname.label,This is the label for the field,Recommender's first name
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.section.recommender.field.id.label,This is the label for the field,Recommender's membership ID
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.section.recommender.field.surname.label,This is the label for the field,Recommender's surname
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.section.recommender.title,This is the title of the section,Who is recommending the applicant?
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.section.who.field.dob.label,This is the label for the field,Applicant's date of birth
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.section.who.field.firstname.label,This is the label for the field,Applicant's first name
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.section.who.field.surname.label,This is the label for the field,Applicant's surname
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.section.who.title,This is the title of the section,Who is applying for the membership?
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.form.version.1,This is the first version of the form,Version 1
event.tennis-club-membership.action.declare.label,This is shown as the action name anywhere the user can trigger the action from,Send an application
event.tennis-club-membership.label,This is what this event is referred as in the system,Tennis club membership application
exitModal.cancel,The label for cancel button in exit modal,Cancel
exitModal.exitWithoutSaving,The title for exit without saving modal,Exit without saving changes?
exitModal.exitWithoutSavingDescription,The description for exit without saving modal,You have unsaved changes on your declaration form. Are you sure you want to exit without saving?
form.field.label.informantRelation.other,,Other ({otherInformantType})
form.field.label.userFirstName,,User's first name
form.field.label.userSurname,,User's surname
form.section.label.timePeriodLast30Days,Label for option of time period select: last 30 days,Last 30 days
form.section.label.timePeriodLast7Days,Label for option of time period select: last 7 days,Last 7 days
form.section.label.timePeriodLast90Days,Label for option of time period select: last 90 days,Last 90 days
form.section.label.timePeriodLastYear,Label for option of time period select: last year,Last year
integrations.type.nationalId,Label for national id,National id
navigation.my-drafts,My drafts label in navigation,My drafts
print.certificate.collector.form.error.template,Form level error for collector form template type,Please select certificate type
registerModal.cancel,The label for cancel button of register modal,Cancel
registerModal.description,The description for register modal,The declarant will be notified of this correction and a record of this decision will be recorded
registerModal.register,The label for register button of register modal,Register
registerModal.title,The title for register modal,Register the member?
rejectModal.archive,The label for archive button of reject modal,Archive
rejectModal.cancel,The label for cancel button of reject modal,Cancel
rejectModal.description,The description for reject modal,Please describe the updates required to this record for follow up action.
rejectModal.markAsDuplicate,The label for mark as duplicate checkbox of reject modal,Mark as a duplicate
rejectModal.sendForUpdate,The label for send For Update button of reject modal,Send For Update
rejectModal.title,The title for reject modal,Reason for rejection?
reloadmodal.body,Body of reload modal,There’s a new version of {app_name} available. Please update to continue.
reloadmodal.button.update,Label of update button,Update
reloadmodal.title,Title when update is available,Update available
reviewAction.description,The description for review action,"By clicking register, you confirm that the information entered is correct and the member can be registered."
reviewAction.register,The label for register button of review action,Register
reviewAction.reject,The label for reject button of review action,Reject
reviewAction.title,The title for review action,Register member
userRole.fieldAgent,Name for user role Field Agent,Field Agent
userRole.healthcareWorker,Name for user role Healthcare Worker,Healthcare Worker
userRole.localLeader,Name for user role Local Leader,Local Leader
userRole.localRegistrar,Name for user role Local Registrar,Local Registrar
userRole.localSystemAdmin,Name for user role Local System Admin,Local System Admin
userRole.nationalRegistrar,Name for user role National Registrar,National Registrar
userRole.nationalSystemAdmin,Name for user role National System Admin,National System Admin
userRole.performanceManager,Name for user role Performance Manager,Performance Manager
userRole.policeOfficer,Name for user role Police Officer,Police Officer
userRole.registrationAgent,Name for user role Registration Agent,Registration Agent
userRole.socialWorker,Name for user role Social Worker,Social Worker
validations.isAgeInYearsBetween,The error message that appears when age for the given date is outside the legal age range,Age must be between {min} and {max} years.
wq.noRecords.draft,No records messages for empty draft tab,No records in my drafts
```

## Configuration template files

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/1.7 OpenCRVS Configuration Files.zip" %}
Templates to configure your OpenCRVS instance
{% endfile %}

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/1.7 OpenCRVS Testing Files.zip" %}
Test Cases and a QA Backlog Excel that you can use to Quality Assure your OpenCRVS instance
{% endfile %}

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/1.7 OpenCRVS Technical Files.zip" %}
Documentation to technically monitor and maintain your OpenCRVS instance
{% endfile %}
