# 7. Search for a record

Civil registration systems must be able to store, file, archive and retrieve records. OpenCRVS enables users to search by a number of different criteria, reducing the search scope for a better user experience.

### **Pre-condition**

A record exist in the system with the status ‘In review’, ‘Validated’, ‘Registered’, ‘Requires Updates’, ‘Registered’, ‘Certified’, ‘Issued’, ‘Archived’

### **Triggers**

A user choose the search term and enters a query

### **Standard flow**

1. User choose the type of search (Tracking ID, Registration No. National ID, Phone number)
2. User enters in search query
3. If user has a connection then the system will process the search query
4. Any results are displayed

### **Post conditions**

* User can then choose to assign themselves to the record and complete the required action
* User can choose to view the record audit for the record
* User can choose to view the record (read only)

### **Variations/Exceptions**

If the user does not have a unique identifier such as a tracking ID or registration no. then they can use **Advanced search**.

Advance search lets you search for a record by:

* Record status eg. Registered or Issued
* Place of registration
* Date of registration
* Using different parameters captured in the form eg. Child, Mother or Fathers details

An advanced search query can also be favourited. Which will add a shortcut to the user’s side nav. This is useful if a user for instance wants to see all records from a District with the status Registered. In a sense this allows a user to create custom workqueues.

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/A6WyRBd9Krk" %}
