# 4.3.5.3 Login to an OpenCRVS server

Now that your database is seeded with your users you should be able to browse to OpenCRVS to login.

**https://login.\<your-domain>**

For **development** & **qa** environments, your test employees ([default-employees.csv](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-countryconfig/blob/develop/src/data-seeding/employees/source/default-employees.csv)) can log straight into your application with 2FA and notifications disabled and the username and password that exists in the csv.

### Staging or production environments

For **staging** & **production** environments, your production National System Administrator employee ([prod-employees.csv](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-countryconfig/blob/develop/src/data-seeding/employees/source/prod-employees.csv)) must immediately login and change the csv password to a strong, minimum 12 character long password.

Then the user will be logged out and will have to login again with 2FA and notifications enabled.

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is your first test of your SMTP service. The National System Administrator should receive an email containing the 2FA code. Emails can end up in your Spam folder so please check and advise staff accordingly.
{% endhint %}

Once logged in, the National System Administrator can create team members through the user interface.

### Debugging first login issues and data-seeding

On fresh environments login issue may happen due to unsuccessful data seeding.

Check data seed logs in Kibana **Observability > Discover** by filtering:

```
kubernetes.container.name : "data-seed"
```

Data seed is short living job and sometimes logs might be missed from Kibana, in that case check container logs by running:

```
kubectl logs job/data-seed -n opencrvs-<env>
```

`<env>` is your environment name.

Example of succesfull data seed job execution log:

```
yarn run v1.22.22
$ NODE_OPTIONS=--dns-result-order=ipv4first ts-node -r tsconfig-paths/register src/index.ts
Seeding locations
Seeding users
Done in 9.15s.
```

If for some reason data seed job was not executed or failed at installation time, please check [Seeding a server environment](../../4.4-opencrvs-maintenance-tasks/4.3.6.2-seeding-a-server-environment.md) to get more information how to re-run job.

### Debugging SMTP

If there is an issue and you are not receiving emails, this is a good opportunity to learn about monitoring and debugging your OpenCRVS installation.

To learn more about OpenCRVS monitoring and maintenance, visit the [monitoring](../../../../../v1.8.0/setup/7.-monitoring) section.

As the SMTP API was configured in the countryconfig service, you can filter the appropriate logs in Kibana in the **Observability > Discover** section like so:

```
kubernetes.container.name : "countryconfig"
```

As you browse the logs you are looking for 500 errors and you can respond to any SMTP service error messages that you see appropriately. Perhaps you need to change the Github Action secrets. [Running a deployment ](4.3.5.2-running-a-opencrvs-deployment.md)of OpenCRVS will refresh all microservices and so this is required when secrets are updated.
