# 3.1 Mapping business processes

The role of OpenCRVS is to enable efficient civil registration services - this starts with smart business processes that make the most out of the potential that technology brings.&#x20;

### Do's and Dont's

**DO**

1. Use technology to enhance business processes and customer satisfaction
2. Explore technologies that are not yet supported in legal frameworks e.g. digital signatures
3. Use the business process improvement process to inform legislative changes for the long-term
4. Design with the user
5. Design to IMPROVE service delivery and customer and user experience

**DON'T**

1. Digitise paper processes
2. Design based on legislation alone
3. Dismiss features because they are not yet legal - now is your chance to change that!
4.  Ignore what you know. If something doesn’t work now - don’t keep it!



### Key Terms

Get to know key CRVS terms:

**Notification:** Minimal set of data relating to the vital event e.g. notification from a health facility.&#x20;

_NB. countries can use the terms notification and declaration interchangeably. Make sure you understand what is meant with the use of each term._&#x20;

**Declaration:** complete set of data required for registration i.e. VE registration form

**Validation:** Checking the data provided in the registration form and validating it with supporting documentation

**Registration:** Legally register the vital event

**Certificate Issuance:** Print and issue a certificate



### Key Considerations

When designing the business processes that OpenCRVS will enable, consider the key civil registration steps as defined below, and how to make the service as efficient as possible, recognising existing pain-points and challenges.&#x20;

<table><thead><tr><th></th><th width="229">Notification / Declaration</th><th>Validation</th><th>Registration</th><th>Certificate Issuance</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Who is best placed to complete this step?</strong></td><td>Health Administrator / Community Leader</td><td>Registration Clerk</td><td>Registrar</td><td>Registration Clerk</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Where should this be done?</strong></td><td>Where the event occurs</td><td>Registration Office</td><td>Wherever they are</td><td>Registration Office</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Why them i.e. defined in law; closest to where VEs occur?</strong></td><td>They know when vital events occur and can notify promptly</td><td>Because they do most administrative tasks for the Registrar &#x26; Registrar not always available</td><td>Defined in law</td><td>Because they do most administrative tasks for the Registrar &#x26; Registrar not always available</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Using what device?</strong></td><td>Mobile phone / tablet</td><td>PC / laptop</td><td>Any device</td><td>PC / laptop</td></tr></tbody></table>
