---
description: >-
  Create a team that has the skills to be able to setup, implement, manage and
  maintain your OpenCRVS instance.
---

# 2. Establish project and team

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=2s&v=A-r3n7ktx7o" %}
How to resource an OpenCRVS implementation programme
{% endembed %}

OpenCRVS has been specifically designed to require minimal technical effort to setup and configure. The individuals who do so should however have the right knowledge and skills to be successful. These roles are defined below.

1. **Technical System Administrator:** in order to run OpenCRVS, this resource will need to have a working knowledge of Linux / Unix operating systems and be able to run terminal commands. OpenCRVS consists of multiple servers which run in Docker containers and requires Node JS. They should be familiar with the concepts of Docker and Node.js web application software development.
2. **Business Analyst / National System Administrator:** to configure application details, forms and vital event certificates, this resource will need to have strong business analysis skills, as well as be experienced in managing systems for enterprise level organisations.&#x20;

{% hint style="warning" %}
These are the resources required to setup OpenCRVS. As part of a digitisation programme many other roles will be required to successfully implement and ensure adoption of the new technology. See the [CRVS Digitisation Guidebook](http://www.crvs-dgb.org/en/skills-required/) for more details.&#x20;
{% endhint %}

For countries where additional software development effort is required, we suggest building a team with the following skills. Note that the size of the team will depend on the scope of work and time available.&#x20;

1. **Designer:** a resource with UI and UX experience is required to translate business and system requirements into user interfaces and experiences that reflect their needs. The component library can be used to design pages with ease and consistently with the rest of the product.
2. **Scrum Master:** a qualified Scrum Master is needed to manage agile development of additional features and functionality in line with OpenCRVS standards.
3. **Full Stack Developers:** experienced full-stack developer with expertise and experience in using Node.js (HapiJS or Express), React and Typescript. This person will also require a working knowledge of Unix operating systems (MacOS / Linux), Git, MongoDB & Docker. Should be familiar with DevOps and software testing practices.
4. **Quality Assurance Engineer(s):** experienced QA engineers are critical to perform comprehensive testing in advance of implementation.&#x20;

Technology alone cannot transform civil registration services. Integrated programme components are required to ensure effective buy-in and take-up of the new system and services. Consider the following team members:

1. **Change Management Lead:** design and implement an effective change management strategy that ensures effective buy-in and take-up of the new system and services.&#x20;
2. **Training Lead:** design and implement an effective training programme that equips users with the skills required to efficiently use the system and deliver excellent services.
3. **Deployment Lead:** design and implement a deployment approach and plan that enables efficient rollout of the system across the country.
4. &#x20;**Monitoring & Evaluation Lead:** design and implement a continuous improvement approach that allows you to continuously learn and improve both the product and implementation approach over time.

For any questions about establishing a team to configure, further develop, or manage and maintain OpenCRVS effectively, get in touch at team@opencrvs.org.&#x20;
