# 4.3.7.1 Restoring a backup

If you are provisioning a new set of OpenCRVS servers, perhaps during an upgrade procedure, you may wish to restore from a previous backup onto a **staging** or **production** environment. These steps document the required process.

Once your servers are provisioned, follow these steps:

1. SSH into the **backup** server (using details for a user who has permission to access the backup environment , e.g.: a user in your backup.yml inventory file), and make a directory named the date of the backup you wish to restore from where the variable **$DATE\_OF\_REQUIRED\_BACKUP** is in this format: YYYY-MM-DD, in the following provisioned directory:

```
mkdir /home/backup/backups/$DATE_OF_REQUIRED_BACKUP
```

2. Exit the backup server and use the rsync command to copy an encrypted backup file from **(in this example - a local environment)** onto your backup server into the above directory, in the following manner. $SSH\_HOST, $SSH\_PORT, $SSH\_USER are the details for a user has permission to access the backup environment , e.g.: a user in your backup.yml inventory file

```
rsync -a -r --delete --progress --rsh="ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -p $SSH_PORT" \
  ${DATE_OF_REQUIRED_BACKUP}.tar.gz.enc \
  $SSH_USER@$SSH_HOST:/home/backup/backups/$DATE_OF_REQUIRED_BACKUP/${DATE_OF_REQUIRED_BACKUP}.tar.gz.enc
```

3. You will need the appropriate BACKUP\_ENCRYPTION\_PASSPHRASE **that was used to encrypt the backup that you are restoring.**
4. You also need the REPLICAS, ELASTICSEARCH\_ADMIN\_PASSWORD, MONGODB\_ADMIN\_USER, MONGODB\_ADMIN\_PASSWORD secrets for the **staging** or **production** environment you are restoring to.  You created and stored these in your password manager in this [step](../4.3.4-create-a-github-environment/).
5. SSH into the provisioned environment that you wish to restore the backup onto, e.g. a **staging** or **production** server manager node.
6. Export the required variables that the commands will use so that they are available as environment variables in your terminal session

```
export ELASTICSEARCH_ADMIN_USER=elastic \
export ELASTICSEARCH_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<enter the appropriate secret here> \
export MONGODB_ADMIN_USER=<enter the appropriate secret here> \
export MONGODB_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<enter the appropriate secret here> \
export BACKUP_ENCRYPTION_PASSPHRASE=<enter the BACKUP_ENCRYPTION_PASSPHRASE that was used to encrypt the backup that you are restoring> \
export SSH_HOST=<enter the backup server host> \
export SSH_PORT=<enter the backup server SSH port> \
export LABEL=<enter the DATE_OF_REQUIRED_BACKUP in this format: YYYY-MM-DD> \
export REPLICAS=<enter the appropriate secret for this environment> \
```

7. Run this command to download and decrypt the backup from the backup environment onto your current environment.  Any errors will output to: /var/log/opencrvs-restore.log

```
cd / && bash /opt/opencrvs/infrastructure/backups/download.sh --passphrase=$BACKUP_ENCRYPTION_PASSPHRASE --ssh_user=backup --ssh_host=$SSH_HOST --ssh_port=$SSH_PORT --label=$LABEL --remote_dir=/home/backup/backups >> /var/log/opencrvs-restore.log 2>&1
```

8. Run this command to restore the backup onto your server.  Any errors will output to: /var/log/opencrvs-restore.log

<pre><code><strong>cd / &#x26;&#x26; bash /opt/opencrvs/infrastructure/backups/restore.sh --replicas=$REPLICAS --label=$LABEL >> /var/log/opencrvs-restore.log 2>&#x26;1
</strong></code></pre>

9. OpenCRVS requires to be re-deployed to function properly once a backup has been restored.  Run this command to **take OpenCRVS down / OFFLINE**.

```
docker stack down opencrvs
```

10. Run this command to clear your terminal session of the history of any exported secrets (security step)

```
history -c
history -w
```

11. Now exit the server follow the "[Running a deployment step](../3.3.6-deploy-automated-and-manual/4.3.6.1-running-a-deployment.md)" step to re-deploy OpenCRVS.  Do not seed the environment.  You can use the user details to login as they existed on the backup as soon as OpenCRVS deploys.
