# 4.3.1.3 Issue SSL Certificates

There are a number of ways you can configure TLS / SSL certificates for OpenCRVS. The options are explained in subsequent pages and all methods must be compatible with [Traefik](https://doc.traefik.io/traefik/https/overview/).

A free approach is to use LetsEncrypt. However LetsEncrypt certificates must validate and refresh every 3 months. When installing OpenCRVS behind a VPN, your VPN and DNS settings must be configured to enable this, and some techniques may not work in your network. For more information see official documentation [https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/challenge-types/)

Alternatively you could consider purchasing a long term SSL certificate and manually replacing the static .crt & .key files every 1, 2 or 3 years depending on it's lifetime. The SSL certificates that you purchase must support the subdomains and each environment's domain: **qa, production & staging, see previous section** [4.3.1.2-configure-dns.md](4.3.1.2-configure-dns.md "mention"). You may opt for a single, multi-domain, wildcard SSL certificate that covers all of your domains regardless of the number of subdomain levels. You need to pay close attention to your domain to understand which SSL certificate to purchase.

OpenCRVS configuration script automatically handles following SSL Certificates:

* LetsEncrypt https challenge in development environments
* Static TLS certificates

The following "recipes" are not meant to be exhaustive, but simply describe some examples you may wish to follow. Every country will have unique network, domain name & management considerations to pay attention to. See more examples at [4.5.1-tls-ssl-configuration-for-traefik](../../4.4-advanced-topics/4.5.1-tls-ssl-configuration-for-traefik/ "mention") later our documentation
