# 3.4 Designing event declaration forms

Complete customisation is offered in OpenCRVS to designing a smart dynamic declaration form

{% hint style="info" %}
**Requirements templates**

Download our Excel templates to help you gather and define requirements for your OpenCRVS implementation [OpenCRVS Requirements Templates](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/wiki/Gather-requirements)
{% endhint %}

### Help & Advice

When reviewing your existing event declaration forms and designing a digital form. Please consider the following:

1. **Ask yourself why are we capturing this data**\
   For each form input it is important to ask why you are requesting this piece of information. Is it for the registration or for statistical purposes?  Define how you are going to use the data in performance dashboards or vital statistics exports \

2. **Stick to pages**\
   Organise form questions by pages. To keep the user focused on a specific topic eg. Child's details, Mother details etc. You can then use conditional logic to show/hide pages if a set of questions is required based on user input. \

3. **Use conditional fields to show/hide inputs**\
   Make the form simple and easy to complete by doing the hard work for the user. With conditional fields you can show fields based on user input. For instance: reveal the input and request the Medically Certified Cause of Death only when the user confirms that it has been established by check the checkbox \
   \
   What other ways can you make your form smart to help the user?\

4. **Copy data for the user, so they don't have to**\
   Think how you can stop the same data having to be entered twice - to make the form easier and quicker to complete. What if the informant is the mother? What if the mother and father live at the same address. Conditional Checkboxes and Selects allow you to copy data in the background so the user doesn't have to\

5. **Use Selects for Statistical data**\
   Use a reference lists to populate select inputs to ensure data quality. Freefield text inputs will generate messy data that will require additional data processing. Define a list of occupations, birth attendants, type of births etc. \

6. **Validate the entry** \
   What is the validation logic for freefield inputs? Add validation logic to ensure quality data is captured at source. Can the date be a future date? What is the minimum time period between the date of birth of the child and the date of birth of the mother? What is your range for weaight at birth?\

7. **Define a set of support documents**\
   Keep the declaration form focused on capturing registration data. Anything else can be added as a supporting document. \
   \
   Any proofs such as proof birth, deaths or medically certified copies that require a signature of the approver should be uploaded as a support document. If for instance the signature of the birth attendant is required on the existing declaration form. Consider creating a new paper template for proof of birth which is required to be uploaded as a supporting document.&#x20;

{% embed url="https://youtu.be/OLsstML8A5Q" %}

&#x20;
