# 3.1.3 Starting and stopping OpenCRVS

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=37s&v=O9heBUKl1_E" %}

After you have installed OpenCRVS, the setup script will have installed the [opencrvs-countryconfig ](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-countryconfig)repository in a directory alongside opencrvs-core. The country configuration is a separate server that must be started and stopped alongside opencrvs-core.

To start and stop opencrvs-core and the country configuration server, use the following commands.

### Starting OpenCRVS Core

1. Ensure you have navigated inside the opencrvs-core directory: `cd opencrvs-core`
2. Run `yarn dev` to start opencrvs-core. You will be asked to confirm that you are ready to start a country configuration server alongside opencrvs-core. If you ran our bash setup.sh script, then you already have opencrvs-countryconfig directory available alongside opencrvs-core. Click Y to continue, or N to exit.
3. Wait for the OpenCRVS client app to build completely (output will slowly stop over the course of about 2 minutes)

### Starting OpenCRVS Country Configuration

1. Open a new terminal window
2. Run `cd ../opencrvs-countryconfig` or cd into your forked country configuration.
3. Run `yarn dev` to start the country configuration server.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
NOTE: If you did not previously run our `bash setup.sh` command, Docker will have to download Mongo DB, ElasticSearch, OpenHIM and Hearth docker images. These are large files. Then docker will build them and you will see Mongo errors output for a long time until Mongo is running.\
\
If you did run our setup command, OpenCRVS will start much faster and these errors will not last very long before the @opencrvs/client: Compiled with warnings. message appears.
{% endhint %}

### Stopping

1. Enter Ctrl+c in the opencrvs-core terminal. After a few seconds Docker will prompt you to type Ctrl+c again to stop any running containers.&#x20;
2. Press Ctrl+c in the opencrvs-countryconfig terminal, or your forked country configuration termina

### Other servers

When OpenCRVS is running, you can browse to other interesting server dependencies of OpenCRVS such as:

#### React Storybook

Our UI component style guide, will be available here: [**http://localhost:6060/**](http://localhost:6060/)

This is a work in progress to assist front end developers and designers in developing new UI features.

