---
description: >-
  In OpenCRVS v1.6.0, alongside numerous technical improvements and bug fixes, we have enhanced form configuration flexibility. Signatures inputs are now part of the form configuration, giving you greater control over where and when they are shown. You can now also add conditions to filter options in document select inputs.
---

# v1.6.0: Release notes

### Breaking changes

- Remove informant notification configuration from the UI and read notification configuration settings from `record-notification` endpoint in countryconfig
- Remove DEL /elasticIndex endpoint due to reindexing changes.
- **Gateways searchEvents API updated** `operationHistories` only returns `operationType` & `operatedOn` due to the other fields being unused in OpenCRVS
- **Config changes to review/preview and signatures** Core used to provide review/preview section by default which are now removed and need to be provided from countryconfig. The signature field definitions (e.g. informant signature, bride signature etc.) were hard coded in core which also have now been removed. The signatures can now be added through the review/preview sections defined in countryconfig just like any other field. You can use the following section definition as the default which is without any additional fields. We highly recommend checking out our reference country repository which has the signature fields in its review/preview sections

```
{
  id: 'preview',
  viewType: 'preview',
  name: {
    defaultMessage: 'Preview',
    description: 'Form section name for Preview',
    id: 'register.form.section.preview.name'
  },
  title: {
    defaultMessage: 'Preview',
    description: 'Form section title for Preview',
    id: 'register.form.section.preview.title'
  },
  groups: [
    {
      id: 'preview-view-group',
      fields: []
    }
  ]
}
```
- `hasChildLocation` query has been removed from gateway. We have created the query `isLeafLevelLocation` instead which is more descriptive on its intended use.

### New features

- **Conditional filtering for document select options** The select options for the DOCUMENT_UPLOADER_WITH_OPTION field can now be conditionally filtered similar to the SELECT_WITH_OPTIONS field using the `optionCondition` field
- Supporting document fields can now be made required
- If there is only one option in the document uploader select, then it stays hidden and only the upload button is showed with the only option being selected by default
- A new certificate handlebar "preview" has been added which can be used to conditionally render some svg element when previewing the certificate e.g. background image similar to security paper
- Add HTTP request creation ability to the form with a set of new form components (HTTP, BUTTON, REDIRECT) [#7489](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7489)

### Improvements

- **ElasticSearch reindexing** Allows reindexing ElasticSearch via a new search-service endpoint `reindex`. We're replacing the original `ocrvs` index with timestamped ones. This is done automatically when upgrading and migrating, but this is an important architectural change that should be noted. More details in [#7033](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/pull/7033).
- Internally we were storing the `family` name field as a required property which was limiting what how you could capture the name of a person in the forms. Now we are storing it as an optional property which would make more flexible.
- Remove the leftover features from the application config pages, such as certificates and informant notification. [#7156](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7156)
- **PDF page size** The generated PDF used to be defaulted to A4 size. Now it respects the SVG dimensions if specified
- Support html content wrapped in `foreignObject` used in svg template in certificate PDF output

### Bug fixes

- Custom form field validators from country config will work offline. [#7478](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7478)
- Registrar had to retry from outbox every time they corrected a record. [#7583](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7583)
- Local environment setup command (`bash setup.sh`) could fail in machines that didn't have a unrelated `compose` binary. Fixed to check for Docker Compose. [#7609](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/pull/7609)
- Fix wrong status shown in the Comparison View page of the duplicate record [#7439](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7439)
- Fix date validation not working correctly in Firefox [#7615](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7615)
- Fix layout issue that was causing the edit button on the AdvancedSearch's date range picker to not show on mobile view. [#7417](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7417)
- Fix hardcoded placeholder copy of input when saving a query in advanced search
- Handle label params used in form inputs when rendering in action details modal
- **Staged files getting reset on precommit hook failure** We were running lint-staged separately on each package using lerna which potentially created a race condition causing staged changes to get lost on failure. Now we are running lint-staged directly without depending on lerna. **_This is purely a DX improvement without affecting any functionality of the system_**
- Fix `informantType` missing in template object which prevented rendering informant relationship data in the certificates [#5952](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/5952)
- Fix users hitting rate limit when multiple users authenticated the same time with different usernames [#7728](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/issues/7728)

