---
metaLinks:
  alternates:
    - >-
      https://app.gitbook.com/s/RziAMaeBMeyiTg5hfFq5/setup/3.-installation/3.1-set-up-a-development-environment/3.1.3-starting-and-stopping-opencrvs
---

# 4.1.3 Starting and stopping OpenCRVS

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?ab_channel=OpenCRVS&feature=youtu.be&v=O9heBUKl1_E" %}

### Starting OpenCRVS Core

{% hint style="info" %}
NOTE: If you did not previously follow [this process](3.1.2-install-opencrvs-locally.md), you will see many errors and OpenCRVS Core will take a long time to start up, as it downloads large Docker images for dependencies.

If you do take time to follow the process, OpenCRVS will start much faster.
{% endhint %}

Open a new terminal window inside the **opencrvs-core** directory and run:

```bash
yarn dev
```

You will be asked to confirm that you are ready to start a country configuration server alongside opencrvs-core. If you ran our optional installation script, then you already have opencrvs-countryconfig directory available alongside the opencrvs-core directory. Click Y to continue, or N to exit.

{% hint style="info" %}
`yarn dev` used on its own, without the parameters below, starts up both dependencies and services in the same window. But it can be hard to debug issues with ports if logs for both are combined.
{% endhint %}

This command can be used in one terminal window to start only the database dependenices in Docker containers.

```bash
yarn dev --only-dependencies
```

This command starts up the core Node microservices, outside of docker containers.

```
yarn dev --only-services
```

### Starting OpenCRVS Country Configuration

Open a new terminal window inside the **opencrvs-countryconfig** directory and run:

```bash
yarn dev
```

### Stopping

1. Press Ctrl+c in the opencrvs-core terminal. After a few seconds Docker may prompt you to type Ctrl+c again to stop any running containers.
2. Press Ctrl+c in the opencrvs-countryconfig terminal, or your forked country configuration termina

### Other servers

When OpenCRVS is running, you can browse to other interesting developer dependencies of OpenCRVS such as:

Our UI Kit component library: [**http://localhost:6060/**](http://localhost:6060/)
