# 22. Comms management

Keeping users and informants informed and update to date is important to keeping the system functioning and registration processed in a timely manner. SMS and or Email can be configured to send notifications to users and informants.\


### User notifications

Notifications can be sent to a user for various different reasons:

* Onboarding
* Username reminder
* Two factor authentication codes
* When a system admin reset a users password
* When a system admin sends a username reminder

#### Supported communication methods:

* SMS
* Email

### Informant notifications

Notifications can be sent to the informant throughout the registration process to give them updates on progress. An record action can be configured to send a notfiication. eg. Notify, Declare, Reject, Register, Request correction, Print certificate.

#### Supported communication methods:

* SMS
* Email\


Example SMS messages for birth registration:

*   **Notification sent to Office**

    Your birth registration tracking ID is \{{trackingId\}}. Please visit \{{crvsOffice\}} to complete your declaration
*   **Declaration sent for review**

    Your birth registration tracking ID for \{{name\}} is \{{trackingId\}}. You will get an SMS within 2 days with progress and next steps.
*   **Declaration rejected**

    Your birth declaration has been rejected. Please visit \{{regOffice\}} with your supporting documents. Your tracking ID is \{{trackingID\}}.
*   **Declaration registered**

    Congratulations, the birth of \{{name\}} has been registered. Visit your local registration office in 5 days with your ID to collect the certificate. Your tracking ID is \{{trackingId\}}
